COMDOX-209: Migrate Extension Developer Best Practices Guide from magento/devdocs (#17)
AdobeDocs/commerce-php: src/pages/best-practices/tutorials/create-api-integration.md

---

# Create an integration with an external API

This tutorial shows you how to create an integration with an external API using [GuzzleHttp](http://docs.guzzlephp.org/en/stable/quickstart.html) library, that is included in the package.

Guzzle is a PHP HTTP client that makes it easy to create some integrations with some web services.
Its implementation code is more simpler, cleaner and readable, in comparision with cURL.

GuzzleHttp uses cURL by default, but it can use any HTTP client that you want other than cURL like PHP's stream wrapper or sockets, in case `curl` isn't installed on your Web Server.

<InlineAlert variant="info" slots="text"/>

It's much easier to cover a GuzzleHttp implementation by [Unit Tests](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.4/test/unit/writing_testable_code.html), as you're able to mock the HTTP requests.

## Request options

| Option | Description | Type |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `method` | HTTP method, any of `GET`, `POST`, `PUT`, `DELETE` | String |
| `uri` | The API endpoint that needs to be called | String |
| `params` | A list of parameters that needs to be passed to the API  | Array |

## Create a GitHub API integration

> In the following example, we're using the [Github API](https://api.github.com/) as web service, and will fetch some data regarding the Magento 2 Git repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example, we're using the [Github API](https://api.github.com/) as a web service and will fetch some data from the `magento/magento2` repository.
```

        $responseContent = $responseBody->getContents(); // here you will have the API response in JSON format
        // Add your logic using $responseContent
    }

    /**
     * Do API request with provided params
     *
     * @param string $uriEndpoint
     * @param array $params
     * @param string $requestMethod
     *
     * @return Response
     */
    private function doRequest(
        string $uriEndpoint,
        array $params = [],
        string $requestMethod = Request::HTTP_METHOD_GET
    ): Response {
        /** @var Client $client */
        $client = $this->clientFactory->create(['config' => [
            'base_uri' => self::API_REQUEST_URI
        ]]);

        try {
            $response = $client->request(
                $requestMethod,
                $uriEndpoint,
                $params
            );
        } catch (GuzzleException $exception) {
            /** @var Response $response */
            $response = $this->responseFactory->create([
                'status' => $exception->getCode(),
                'reason' => $exception->getMessage()
            ]);
        }

        return $response;
    }
}
```

## Result

> As result, you get all the available information regarding the Magento 2 GitHub repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a result, you get all the available information about the `magento/magento2` repository.
```
